CHIEF COMPLAINT

Melanoma.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS

Sophia Jackson is a very pleasant 57-year-old female who presents for a surgical consult for melanoma of the right inferior back. She was referred by her dermatologist who biopsied the 0.7 mm lesion on 04/10 and diagnosed the melanoma. The lesion was initially noticed by the patient’s mother when she was visiting her last month. Mrs. Jackson denies a personal history of atypical nevi and reports that she has annual mole checks by her primary care provider at her physicals. She has never seen a dermatologist prior to last month. There is a family history of melanoma in her mother and maternal aunt. The patient reports that she has been in her usual state of health with no unintentional weight changes, headaches, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, or vision changes.

PAST HISTORY

Medical
None reported.

Surgical
Cholecystectomy.
Appendectomy.

SOCIAL HISTORY

Patient owns an auto repair shop.
Current smoker since teens. Actively trying to quit.

FAMILY HISTORY

Mother: melanoma.
Maternal aunt: melanoma.
Maternal grandfather: pancreatic cancer.
No family history of breast or ovarian cancers.

MEDICATIONS

None.

ALLERGIES

Augmentin.

PHYSICAL EXAM

Hematologic/lymphatics: No axillary, cervical, or supraclavicular lymphadenopathy. There is a soft lymph node in the right groin. Nontender.
Skin: On the right inferior back there is a 1 cm shave biopsy site including all of the dermis with no residual pigmentation. There’s no intrinsic or satellite lesions. No other suspicious moles.

RESULTS

Pathology Report.

Pathology: Shave biopsy of right inferior back malignant melanoma, invasive, superficial spreading.
Histology: Superficial spreading.
Clark level: 4.
Breslow thickness: 0.7 mm.
Radial growth phase: present.
Vertical growth phase: not identified.
Mitotic figures: less than 1 mm2.
Ulceration: not identified.
Regression: not identified.
Lymphatic invasion: not identified.
Perineural invasion: not identified.
Microscopic satellitosis: not identified.
Infiltrating lymphocytes: breast.
Melanocytic nevus: not identified.
Predominant cytology: epithelioid.
Peripheral margin: positive.
Deep margin: Negative.
Stage: 1.

I reviewed the dermatologist’s photo of the lesion which showed an asymmetric black and brown nevus with central amelanotic component and irregular border.

ASSESSMENT AND PLAN

The patient presents today with newly diagnosed melanoma. The biopsy revealed an intermediate thickness melanoma. On examination today, there is a right inguinal lymph node with slightly atypical consistency. I recommended an ultrasound to rule out metastatic disease. If the ultrasound is normal, the patient is a candidate for a wide local excision with a 1-2 cm margin. Primary closure should be possible, but skin graft closure may be needed. The relationship between tumor histology and prognosis and treatment was carefully reviewed. The need for follow up according to the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines was reviewed. We also reviewed the principles of sun avoidance, skin self-examination, and the ABCDE’s of mole surveillance. After discussing the procedure, risks, expected outcomes and possible complications, questions were answered, and the patient expressed understanding and did choose to proceed.