CHIEF COMPLAINT

Difficulty urinating.

MEDICAL HISTORY

Patient reports history of coronary artery disease and diabetes.

SURGICAL HISTORY

Patient reports undergoing right coronary arter stent placement in 2018 by Dr. Moore.

SOCIAL HISTORY

Patient reports that he tries to exercise. He is a college football fan.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS

Cardiovascular: Denies chest pain or shortness of breath.
Gastrointestinal: Denies change in bowel movements.
Genitourinary: Reports difficulty urinating. Denies dysuria or urinary retention.

PHYSICAL EXAM

Respiratory
- Auscultation of Lungs: Clear bilaterally.

Cardiovascular
Slight 3/6 systolic ejection murmur heard at the left base.

Gastrointestinal
- Examination of Abdomen: Nontender and nondistended. No masses, rebound or guarding.

Rectal
- Examination: Enlarged prostate appreciated. No masses appreciated.

ASSESSMENT AND PLAN

1. Difficulty urinating.
- Medical Reasoning: The patient presents today with approximately a 6 month history of difficulty with urination. His prostate also felt slightly enlarged on exam today.
- Patient Education and Counseling: The patient was advised that there were no concerning symptoms of prostate cancer appreciated on his physical exam today.
- Medical Treatment: We will order routine labs including a PSA to rule out prostate cancer. We will also refer him to a urologist for further evaluation as well as order a urinalysis and urine culture. We will start him on Flomax 0.4 mg once at night to avoid dizziness.

2. Coronary artery disease.
- Medical Reasoning: The patient had a 3/6 systolic ejection murmur heard at the left base on exam today. This has been heard on his exams in the past.
- Medical Treatment: We will order an echocardiogram to follow up on his murmur. We will also order a lipid panel. He will continue Lipitor 40 mg a day, aspirin and metoprolol.

3. Diabetes.
- Medical Reasoning: The patient is currently doing well with his diabetes.
- Medical Treatment: We will continue him on metformin 1000 mg twice a day. A hemoglobin A1c will be ordered to see if any medication adjustments are needed.

Patient Agreements: The patient understands and agrees with the recommended medical treatment plan.

INSTRUCTIONS

He will follow up in 3 to 4 weeks and is advised to call or message me in the patient portal if he has any concerns.