CHIEF COMPLAINT

Hepatitis C.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS

Bruce Ward is a pleasant 60-year-old male who presents to the clinic today following a positive result in a hepatitis C antibody test. He was sent to obtain the hepatitis C antibody test as part of a routine physical. He states he is anxious with the results and denies he has ever been diagnosed with hepatitis C. The patient admits to intravenous drug use in the past; however, he notes it has been longer than 15 years since his last usage. He also reports a history of heavy alcohol use. He continues to drink a beer on occasion. The patient currently smokes 1 to 2 cigarettes per day. He notes he used to smoke more and is having difficulty with complete cessation.

MEDICAL HISTORY

The patient denies any significant past medical history.

SOCIAL HISTORY

The patient is married with children. He reports history of IV drug use 15 years ago. He currently drinks beer occasionally. The patient reports smoking 1 to 2 cigarettes per day.

FAMILY HISTORY

He reports a family history of high blood pressure, diabetes, and depression.

MEDICATIONS

Patient denies taking any current medications.

VITALS

All vital signs are within normal limits.

PHYSICAL EXAM

CONSTITUTIONAL: In no apparent distress.
CV: Regular rate and rhythm. Grade 2 out of 6 systolic ejection murmur is appreciated.
RESPIRATORY: Lungs are clear without wheezes, rales, or rhonchi.
GI/GU: Abdomen is soft with no hepatosplenomegaly. Bowel sounds are present.
SKIN: No jaundice.

RESULTS

The HCV antibody test was reviewed today and is positive.

Liver panel revealed an elevated AST at 39 U/L. The ALT, albumin, and total bilirubin were all within normal limits.

ASSESSMENT

Hepatitis C.

PLAN

After reviewing the patient's laboratory findings today, I have had a lengthy discussion with him in regard to his current symptoms. His initial labs were consistent with a hepatitis C diagnosis. I have recommended that we confirm the diagnosis with additional blood work including checking his hepatitis C RNA and HCV genotype. I have also recommended that we obtain an ultrasound elastography to evaluate for fibrosis of the liver.

The patient is married with children and is concerned about their hepatitis C status. I advised the patient that his family should be screened and we will assist him with setting appointments with their primary care physician.

INSTRUCTIONS

The patient will follow up with me in 3 weeks to review his results and discuss further treatment.