CHIEF COMPLAINT

Emergency department follow up.

MEDICAL HISTORY

Patient reports history of hypertension.

MEDICATIONS

Patient reports taking Bumex 2 mg once daily, Cozaar 100 mg daily, and Norvasc 5 mg once daily.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS

Constitutional: Denies sleep disturbance.
Cardiovascular: Denies chest pain.
Respiratory: Denies dyspnea.
Genitourinary: Reports urinary incontinence in the setting of diuretic medication.

VITALS

Blood Pressure: 128/72 mmHg
Temperature: 98.7 degrees F
Heart Rate: 72 bpm
Oxygen Saturation: 96%

PHYSICAL EXAM

Neck
- General Examination: No jugular venous distention.

Cardiovascular
- Auscultation of Heart: Stable 2/6 systolic ejection murmur.

Musculoskeletal
- Examination: Trace lower extremity edema.

RESULTS

Echocardiogram reveals a preserved ejection fraction of 55%, abnormal diastolic filling, and mild-to-moderate mitral regurgitation.

ASSESSMENT AND PLAN

1. Congestive heart failure.
- Medical Reasoning: This appears to have been caused by dietary indiscretion and uncontrolled hypertension.
- Patient Education and Counseling: I encouraged the patient to continue making dietary modifications, including limiting her sodium intake. She could try keeping a food diary, as previously discussed, to log her diet and associated blood pressure readings. I also advised her to monitor her weight daily and contact me if she gains 3 pounds in 2 days.
- Medical Treatment: Continue with Bumex 2 mg once daily. Referral placed for consult with a nutritionist for education and recommendations regarding her diet.

2. Hypertension.
- Medical Reasoning: This has been poorly controlled due to inconsistent compliance with medication and dietary indiscretion.
- Patient Education and Counseling: We discussed dietary modifications as noted above.
- Medical Treatment: She can continue on Cozaar 100 mg daily and Norvasc 5 mg once daily. Renal artery ultrasound ordered to rule out any issues such as renal artery stenosis.

3. Kidney disease.
- Medical Treatment: Labs will be ordered to assess her response to new medications.

Patient Agreements: The patient understands and agrees with the recommended medical treatment plan.

INSTRUCTIONS

The patient will follow up in 3 months.