CHIEF COMPLAINT

Left wrist and hand pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS

George Lewis is a pleasant 57-year-old male who presents to the clinic today for evaluation of left wrist and hand pain. He reports an onset of a few months ago but denies any specific injury. However, the patient notes he often engages in repetitive motions while performing his work duties. His symptoms are worse at night, and he wakes with numbness in the bilateral hands. He experiences numbness in all fingers, but states it is the most noticeable in the left thumb and index finger. He affirms intermittent numbness in the left little finger. For relief, he shakes his hands upon waking. The patient also experiences weakness in his left hand. He reports he drops objects and explains “I have a hard time feeling it.”

MEDICAL HISTORY

The patient denies a history of rheumatoid arthritis.

SOCIAL HISTORY

He works in landscaping. He reports consuming 1 to 2 beers on weekends.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS

Musculoskeletal: Reports left wrist and hand pain. Denies right hand pain.
Neurological: Reports numbness in bilateral hands and fingers, and left hand weakness.

PHYSICAL EXAM

NEURO: Decreased sensation in the right thumb and index finger.
MSK: Examination of the bilateral hands: Grip strength is less on the left in comparison to the right. Positive Tinel sign bilaterally.

ASSESSMENT

Bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome.

PLAN

After reviewing the patient's clinical history and examination today, I have had a lengthy discussion with him regarding treatment options for his current symptoms. I discussed the importance of activity modification and encouraged the patient to limit active repetitive motions while working for the next 2 weeks. I also recommended that he wear a wrist splint to provide increased support. I advised him to take ibuprofen 600 mg every 6 hours. Additionally, I recommended we obtain an EMG of the bilateral upper extremities to evaluate for carpal tunnel syndrome. The patient will follow up with me in 2 weeks when the EMG results are available for review. If at that time his symptoms have not improved with these conservative measures, we will discuss further treatment options including additional diagnostic testing or possible surgical intervention.

The patient states he understands and is in agreement with the plan. All questions were answered to the patient's satisfaction.

INSTRUCTIONS

The patient will follow up with me in 2 weeks.