CHIEF COMPLAINT

Left arm pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS

He reports that his left arm pain began approximately 2 weeks ago. He woke around 2:00 am with intense pain in his left arm and hand. He applied ice and after 2-3 hours, the pain improved and he was able to go back to sleep, the pain did not return until that evening. After several nights of experiencing the left arm and hand pain, he was seen by Betty Ross, PA-C. She suspected a pinched nerve and completed x-rays of the cervical spine, prescribed gabapentin and prednisone, and referred the patient to us. The patient has benefited from the gabapentin and prednisone, reporting improvement of pain at night.

The pain initially was encountered at night, but the patient notes that the symptoms carry into the next day. He denies pain when moving his neck, turning his head, and moving his shoulder.

Mr. Clark does report a history of a left finger injury, stating “it rarely works”, and neuropathy in one leg from his knee to his foot which he receives 1% disability for. The patient is a veteran.

PAST HISTORY

Medical
Peripheral neuropathy.

SOCIAL HISTORY

The patient is a veteran and receives 1% disability.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS

Gabapentin tablet.
Prednisone tablet.

PHYSICAL EXAM

Constitutional
Elderly Caucasian male in no apparent distress. Presents in wheelchair.

Neurologic
Upper extremities: 1+ bilateral biceps, triceps, brachioradialis, reflexes bilaterally, negative. Negative Hoffman's
Gait: Not assessed today.

Strength
Upper extremities: Normal throughout the biceps, triceps, deltoid, grip strength, and finger abduction, bilaterally.
Sensation: Intact to light touch throughout the upper and lower extremities.

Musculoskeletal
Cervical: Nontender over cervical spine. Mildly restricted cervical extension and right and left lateral rotation, which is symmetric, which gives him mild lateral neck pain, but no radicular pain. Spurling's maneuver is benign.

RESULTS

X-ray Cervical Spine, 06/04/2021.
Impression: Significant disc degeneration at C5-6 and to a lesser extent C4-5 and C3-4. Significant lower facet arthropathy. C6-7 and C7-T1 are difficult to visualize in the current x-rays.

ASSESSMENT

• Left upper extremity neuropathy, suspicious for cervical radiculopathy, possible contribution of peripheral neuropathy
• Neck pain in the setting of arthritis and disc generation

PLAN

I suspect that this is a flare of cervical radiculopathy. I am going to set him up for a cervical MRI. We will tentatively plan for a left C7-T1 epidural afterwards, although the exact level will be pending the MRI results. He will continue his home exercise program as well as twice daily gabapentin. We will follow up with him afterwards to determine his level of relief. He denies any blood thinners.

This plan was discussed in detail with the patient who is in agreement.

INSTRUCTIONS

Continue home exercise program and twice daily gabapentin. Schedule MRI and epidural injection. Follow-up after epidural.