CHIEF COMPLAINT

Right ankle pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS

Anna Diaz is a pleasant 31-year-old female who presents to the clinic today for the evaluation of right ankle pain. The onset of her pain began when she slipped on a patch of ice while taking out the trash. She states that she heard a pop at the time of the injury. The patient reports that she was unable to ambulate on her right ankle initially after the injury; however, she is now able to bear some weight on her right ankle, but she is still limping. The patient rates her pain level as a 6 out of 10. Ms. Diaz describes her pain as constant and throbbing. She reports that her right ankle is warm to the touch. She denies any numbness or tingling in her right foot. The patient has been icing and elevating her right ankle while also utilizing ibuprofen last night and this morning, which did not provide her with any relief. The patient states that she used to play a lot of soccer in high school so she notes that she has had other right foot injuries but not like this.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS

Musculoskeletal: Positive right ankle pain.
Skin: Positive warmth to the right foot.
Neurological: Denies any numbness or tingling.

VITALS

BP: 120/80
SPO2: 98%.

PHYSICAL EXAM

CV: Capillary refill is less than 3 seconds. Strong dorsalis pedis pulse.
NEURO: Normal sensation. Sensation is intact to light touch distally.
MSK: Examination of the right ankle reveals ecchymosis over the lateral malleolus associated with swelling. Tenderness to palpation anterolaterally in the soft tissue. No laxity on anterior drawer or inversion stress. No bony tenderness on palpation of the foot.

RESULTS

X-ray of the right ankle taken in office today reveals no fracture or bony abnormalities.

ASSESSMENT

Right ankle sprain.

PLAN

After reviewing the patient's examination and radiographic findings today, I have had a lengthy discussion with the patient in regards to her current symptoms. I have explained to her that her symptoms are consistent with a right ankle sprain. I have recommended that we treat the patient conservatively. I have advised her to keep her right leg elevated when she is seated. I have also advised her to ice her right ankle 5 times per day for 20 minutes at a time to help with the swelling. I have also recommended that the patient be placed in an Aircast to stabilize the ankle. She will remain non-weight-bearing for 1 to 2 days, we provided her with crutches today, and then she can begin weight-bearing as tolerated.

INSTRUCTIONS

If her pain does not improve over the next week, she will contact the office and we will obtain an MRI.
