CHIEF COMPLAINT

Asthma.

MEDICAL HISTORY

Patient reports history of asthma.

SURGICAL HISTORY

Patient reports history of tonsillectomy.

SOCIAL HISTORY

Patient reports she is a student and enjoys playing water polo as well as being active with aerobics and running.

ALLERGIES

Patient reports history of seasonal allergies.

MEDICATIONS

Patient reports using an albuterol inhaler, 2 puffs as needed.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS

Constitutional: Reports fatigue.
Respiratory: Reports shortness of breath.
Psychiatric: Reports mood changes.

PHYSICAL EXAM

Ears, Nose, Mouth, and Throat
- Examination of Ears: Mild fluid in ears.
- Examination of Mouth: Normal.
- Examination of Throat: Tonsils have been previously removed.

Gastrointestinal
- Auscultation: Bowel sounds normal in all 4 quadrants.

Integumentary
- Examination: No rash or lesions. Normal capillary refill and perfusion.
- Palpation: No enlarged lymph nodes.

ASSESSMENT AND PLAN

1. Asthma.
- Medical Reasoning: The patient has experienced an increased need to use her albuterol inhaler. She is not currently utilizing a daily medication. At this time, we will try a daily medication since it looks like she might be having some allergies.
- Patient Education and Counseling: I explained the side effects of albuterol to the patient. We also discussed Singulair and that she should start to see a difference in her breathing within approximately 1 month.
- Medical Treatment: We will start her on a daily asthma medication. She can continue to use the albuterol inhaler. We will start her on Singulair in about a month.

2. Mood.
- Medical Reasoning: The patient reports being under a lot of stress with school. I believe this may be attributing to her mood.
- Medical Treatment: I would like for the patient to be seen by a therapist. She will also complete our screening questionnaire.

Patient Agreements: The patient understands and agrees with the recommended medical treatment plan.

INSTRUCTIONS

The patient will follow up in 6 weeks for recheck.