CHIEF COMPLAINT

History of right ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS).

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS

Sophia Brown is a 75 y.o. female who presents today for a new patient evaluation due to her history of right DCIS. She is doing well but wishes to establish care today for continued monitoring.

The patient underwent a screening mammogram in 10/2019 and was found to have a calcification in the right breast. She then had a right breast ultrasound on 11/03/2019 which revealed a mass at the 2 o’clock position, 11 cm from the nipple, in the retroareolar region. The report states the mass was 0.4 by 2.0 by 3.0 centimeters. She subsequently had an ultrasound-guided core needle biopsy on 12/05/2019 and pathology results revealed grade 2 ER-positive, PR-positive DCIS. The patient then had a lumpectomy with lymphadenectomy performed on 01/20/2020. The tumor was 8 mm with negative margins and the 5 lymph nodes removed were all benign. Pathology from the tumor confirmed DCIS. Her lumpectomy was followed by adjuvant radiation therapy. Endocrine therapy was also offered but the patient declined. She has since had a mammogram in 01/2021 which was normal. The patient also reports that she performs self-breast exams regularly at home.

Mrs. Brown is a G5P5 female and estimates that her last menstrual period was approximately 30 years ago. She is not currently and has never been on hormone replacement therapy.

The patient’s last colonoscopy was done in 2018. She had a sigmoid polypectomy at that time and pathology showed a tubular adenoma.

Her cholesterol was recently noted to be elevated and the patient reports that she is exercising and reducing fatty food intake accordingly. This is being followed by her primary care provider.

PAST HISTORY

Medical
Hypercholesterolemia.
Stage 0 ER/PR-positive invasive ductal carcinoma of the right breast, status post lumpectomy and adjuvant radiation therapy.

Surgical
Right lumpectomy, lymphadenectomy x5, 01/20/2020.
Bilateral tubal ligation.

SOCIAL HISTORY

Alcohol: Socially. No history of heavier consumption.
Illicit drug use: Never.
Tobacco: Former smoker. Quit approximately 30 years ago.
Patient has 5 children and multiple grandchildren.

FAMILY HISTORY

Mother: Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma.
Father: Prostate cancer, heart disease.
Her children are healthy. She has no siblings. Denies family history of breast cancer.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS

Co-Q 10.
Vitamin D.
Vitamin C.
Fish oil.
Elderberry fruit.

ALLERGIES

Penicillin.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS

Negative for weight loss, weight gain, headaches, bone pain, urinary symptoms, blood in the stools.
Positive for back pain, joint pain, high cholesterol. Patient has sought care for these complaints. She reports that she was told the back pain and joint pain (knee) are age-related. She is being followed for the high cholesterol by her primary care provider.

PHYSICAL EXAM

The ECOG performance status today is grade 0.
Breast: There are no palpable masses; however, there is some skin thickening at the medial inferior aspect of the right breast which may be radiation skin changes.

ASSESSMENT

Stage 0 ER/PR-positive invasive ductal carcinoma of the right breast.
The patient is status post lumpectomy with removal of 5 lymph nodes which were benign. She also underwent adjuvant radiation therapy but declined endocrine therapy. Today’s clinical examination shows no evidence of recurrent disease or other malignancy. She also had a negative mammogram in 01/2021.

PLAN

1. We will continue to observe the patient.
2. She is due for a mammogram in 04/2022.
3. She should follow up with me in 1 year after the mammogram.