CHIEF COMPLAINT

Follow-up.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS

Nicole Miller is a 71-year-old female who presents for follow-up. The patient was called in for a follow up with me for chronic congestive heart failure with diastolic dysfunction. Her BNP had been 3000 in 03/2021, up to 6000 in 04/2021. She was increasingly dyspneic. We had changed her furosemide to torsemide at 20 mg by mouth daily. The patient is not on a potassium supplement currently. Her lisinopril had also been increased up to 10 mg daily in 03/2021.

I last saw her in 04/2021, and she had reported being interested in having her right knee replaced this summer at East Metropolitan Hospital, so it was recommended that we work to control her cardiovascular status prior to surgery. She is currently scheduled to have surgery on 06/24/2021. She plans to discontinue clopidogrel a week before her surgery.

The patient states that she has lost approximately 3 to 3.5 pounds since her last visit in 04/2021. Some of which may be water weight decreasing. She did report experiencing bilateral leg cramps which she treated with consumption of pickle juice, which did resolve the cramps. She thought the cramps were related to her being cold.

She is still taking iron supplementation. She denies any concerns with defecation.

Regarding her prior symptoms of heartburn, she denies any recent gastrointestinal issues. She notes that her heartburn was severe at one point but resolved after trying Prilosec for 2 weeks in 01/2021. She denies any issues with heartburn since that time and has stopped taking Prilosec altogether. She has since transitioned back to her original "stomach medication".

The patient is due for a colonoscopy. She is currently double covered with Medicare and private insurance.

PAST HISTORY

Medical
Chronic Congestive Heart Failure.
Iron deficiency Anemia.

Medications
Prilosec.

FAMILY HISTORY

No family history of colon cancer.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS

Torsemide 20 mg by mouth daily.
Lisinopril 10 mg daily.

RESULTS

Magnesium 1.7, hemoglobin WNL, potassium 3.9, creatinine 0.7, BUN 23.
03/2020 Hgb A1c 5.5.

ASSESSMENT

• Chronic congestive heart failure with mixed presentation.
• Preop examination.
• Diabetes mellitus.
• Colonoscopy

PLAN

Chronic congestive heart failure with mixed presentation.
She had an exacerbation of CHF earlier in the spring. We switched her from furosemide to torsemide and symptomatically, she is doing a lot better. She is about 1.5 kg down in weight. Her breathing is nonlabored. We are going to repeat an EKG today. Otherwise, continue her current regimen. Labs were checked and creatinine is appropriate. Her magnesium is below the preferred 2 at 1.7, with some occurrence of bilateral leg cramping, therefore we will start her on magnesium supplement.

Preop examination.
She is going to be having a right knee replacement at the end of 06/2021. We will schedule a preop check the first week or two of June prior to the surgery. She will discontinue clopidogrel for one week prior to knee replacement surgery; we will provide a reminder to patient of this as well.

Diabetes mellitus.
A1c is 5.5 on last check, so there is no need for a further A1c today. She may need another one prior to her surgery next month.

Colonoscopy.
The patient is overdue for a colonoscopy, which we will try to have done at County Hospital in the next month, prior to a change in her insurance. This is just a screening colonoscopy that she is overdue for. No family history of colon cancer.

The patient understands and agrees with the recommended medical treatment plan.

INSTRUCTIONS

Complete EKG today. Schedule a preop checkup 1st or 2nd week of June. Start magnesium supplement. Call the clinic with any questions or new symptoms.
