CHIEF COMPLAINT

Follow-up bilateral breast cysts.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS

Donna Torres is a 40-year-old female who presents for follow-up surveillance of bilateral breast cysts.

The patient reports continual presence of “lumps” in bilateral breasts with some soreness. She is being seen today for surveillance of the cysts. The patient is taking progesterone, which was initially prescribed to support normalization of menstruation, which was effective. She is also still using vaginal cream one time per week which has improved symptoms of itching and discomfort.

Her last pap smear was in 2019, with negative/negative results. She did have an abnormal pap smear in 2009, which resulted in repeat pap smears per 6 months until her results normalized.

Mrs. Torres experienced increased anxiety in 11/2021 and 12/2021, stating “it was brutal” and felt she could not manage her symptoms and sought treatment. Dr. Brown started the patient on Buspar, which has successfully controlled her anxiety. The patient relates her anxiety to work related stress and possibly aging. Her work involves supporting Covid evaluation centers and clinics. She confirms receiving both Covid vaccinations. Initially, she was experiencing spikes in anxiety prior to menstruation, but her anxiety then became more random with an unclear cause. To note, the patient was started on Singulair, which the patient was told could also cause anxiety.

The patient discontinued Camila birth control, which did result in a significant increase in appetite. This has resolved and she reports she has lost weight in the past 6 months.

Gynecologic History
Last pap smear: 2019.
History of abnormal pap smear: 2009.

PAST HISTORY

Medical
Bilateral breast cysts.
Anxiety.

SOCIAL HISTORY

Employed in healthcare, supports Covid evaluation centers and clinics.

FAMILY HISTORY

Mother, deceased age 45, from complications of breast cancer.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS

Buspar.
Singulair.

PHYSICAL EXAM

Genitourinary
Breast: Breast density.

ASSESSMENT

• Follow-up bilateral breast cysts.
• Pap smear.

PLAN

Follow-up bilateral breast cysts
Physical exam indicated stable breast density bilaterally. The patient is being seen regularly for monitoring. The plan is to continue close monitoring and the patient will be referred to breast specialist for additional review. The patient agreed to this plan.

Pap smear
Exam was normal. No additional treatment needed at this time.

INSTRUCTIONS

Schedule appointment with breast specialist. Call clinic with any additional concerns.